1
experimental investigation of the aerodynamics of a
wing in a slipstream .
  an experimental study of a wing in a propeller slipstream was
made in order to determine the spanwise distribution of the lift
increase due to slipstream at different angles of attack of the wing
and at different free stream to slipstream velocity ratios .  the
results were intended in part as an evaluation basis for different
theoretical treatments of this problem .
  the comparative span loading curves, together with
supporting evidence, showed that a substantial part of the lift increment
produced by the slipstream was due to a /destalling/ or
boundary-layer-control effect .  the integrated remaining lift
increment, after subtracting this destalling lift, was found to agree
well with a potential flow theory .
  an empirical evaluation of the destalling effects was made for
the specific configuration of the experiment .
2
simple shear flow past a flat plate in an incompressible fluid of small
viscosity .
in the study of high-speed viscous flow past a two-dimensional body it
is usually necessary to consider a curved shock wave emitting from the
nose or leading edge of the body .  consequently, there exists an
inviscid rotational flow region between the shock wave and the boundary
layer .  such a situation arises, for instance, in the study of the
hypersonic viscous flow past a flat plate .  the situation is somewhat
different from prandtl's classical boundary-layer problem . in prandtl's
original problem the inviscid free stream outside the boundary layer is
irrotational while in a hypersonic boundary-layer problem the inviscid
free stream must be considered as rotational .  the possible effects of
vorticity have been recently discussed by ferri and libby .  in the
present paper, the simple shear flow past a flat plate in a fluid of small
viscosity is investigated .  it can be shown that this problem can again
be treated by the boundary-layer approximation, the only novel feature
being that the free stream has a constant vorticity .  the discussion
here is restricted to two-dimensional incompressible steady flow .
3
the boundary layer in simple shear flow past a flat plate .
the boundary-layer equations are presented for steady
incompressible flow with no pressure gradient .
4
approximate solutions of the incompressible laminar
boundary layer equations for a plate in shear flow .
  the two-dimensional steady boundary-layer
problem for a flat plate in a
shear flow of incompressible fluid is considered .
solutions for the boundary-
layer thickness, skin friction, and the velocity
distribution in the boundary
layer are obtained by the karman-pohlhausen
technique .  comparison with
the boundary layer of a uniform flow has also
been made to show the effect of
vorticity .
5
one-dimensional transient heat conduction into a double-layer
slab subjected to a linear heat input for a small time
internal .
  analytic solutions are presented for the transient heat
conduction in composite slabs exposed at one surface to a
triangular heat rate .  this type of heating rate may occur, for
example, during aerodynamic heating .
6
one-dimensional transient heat flow in a multilayer
slab .
  in a recent contribution to the readers'
forum wassermann gave analytic
solutions for the temperature in a double
layer slab, with a triangular heat
rate input at one face, insulated at the other,
and with no thermal resistance
at the interface .  his solutions were for the
three particular cases..
i propose here to give the general solution
to this problem, to indicate
briefly how it is obtained using the method of
reference 2, and to point out
that the solutions given by wassermann are
incomplete for times longer
than the duration of the heat input .
7
the effect of controlled three-dimensional roughness
on boundary layer transition at supersonic speeds .
  experiments were performed in the 12-in. supersonic wind
tunnel of the jet propulsion laboratory of the california
institute of technology to investigate the effect of three-dimensional
roughness elements (spheres) on boundary-layer transition on a
tained at local mach numbers of 1.90, 2.71, and 3.67 by varying
trip size, position, spacing, and reynolds number per inch .
the results indicate that (1) transition from laminar to turbulent
flow induced by three-dimensional roughness elements begins
when the double row of spiral vortices trailing each element
contaminates and breaks down the surrounding field of vorticity, (2)
transition appears rather suddenly, becoming more violent with
increasing roughness height relative to the boundary-layer
thickness, (3) after the breakdown of the vorticity field, the strength
of the spiral vortices may still persist in the sublayer of the
ensuing turbulent flow, (4) lateral spacing of roughness elements has
little effect upon the initial breakdown (contamination) of the
laminar flow, and (5) the trip reynolds number where u
and v are the velocity and kinematic viscosity at the outer edge of
the boundary layer and k is roughness height, such that transition
occurs at the roughness position, varies as the position reynolds
number to the one-fourth power, viz., where x is
trip position .
8
measurements of the effect of two-dimensional and three-dimensional
roughness elements on boundary layer transition .
in his study of the effect of roughness on transition, h. l.
dryden found, on the basis of available data, that the effect
of a two-dimensional roughness element such as a /trip wire/
could be represented reasonably well in terms of a functional
relation between and, where is the reynolds number
of transition based on distance from the leading edge, is the
height of the roughness element, and is the boundary-layer
displacement thickness at the position of the element .  at his
suggestion some additional data were obtained, primarily to
extend the range to higher values of, during the course of an
investigation of transition on a flat plate conducted at the
national bureau of standards .  after the results on the two-
dimensional roughness elements were obtained, it appeared to be
desirable to see whether a row of three-dimensional roughness
elements would behave in the same way .
9
transition studies and skin friction measurements on
an insulated flat plate at a mach number of 5.8 .
  an investigation of transition and skin friction on an insulated
flat plate, 5 by 26 in., was made in the galcit 5 by 5 in.
hypersonic wind tunnel at a nominal mach number of 5.8 .
  the phosphorescent lacquer technique was used for transition
detection and was found to be in good agreement with total-head
rake measurements along the plate surface and pitot boundary-
layer surveys .  it was found that the boundary layer was
laminar at reynolds numbers of at least 5 x 10 .  transverse
contamination caused by the turbulent boundary layer on the
tunnel sidewall originated far downstream of the flat plate leading
edge at reynolds numbers of 1.5 to 2 x 10, and spread at a
uniform angle of 5 compared to 9 degree in low-speed flow .
  the effect of two-dimensional and local disturbances was
investigated .  the technique of air injection into the boundary
layer as a means of hastening transition was extensively used .
although the onset of transition occurred at reynolds numbers
as low as 10, a fully developed turbulent boundary layer was
not obtained at reynolds numbers much below 2 x 10
regardless of the amount of air injected .
  a qualitative discussion of these results is given with emphasis
on the possibility of a greater stability of the laminar boundary
layer in hypersonic flow than at lower speeds .
  direct skin-friction measurements were made by means of the
floating element technique, over a range of reynolds numbers
verified as being laminar over the complete range .  with air
injection, turbulent shear was obtained only for reynolds
numbers greater than 2 x 10, this value being in good agreement with
earlier results of this investigation .  the turbulent skin-friction
coefficient was found to be approximately 0.40 of that for
incompressible flow for a constant value of r, and 0.46 for an effective
reynolds number between 5 and 6 x 10 .
10
the theory of the impact tube at low pressure .
  a theoretical analysis has been made for an impact tube of the
relation between free-stream mach number and the impact and
free-stream pressures and densities for extremely low pressures .
it is shown that the results differ appreciably from the
corresponding continuum relations .
11
similar solutions in compressible laminar free mixing
problems .
there are in supersonic aerodynamics many situations of
practical interest wherein streams of different velocities and,
in general, different stagnation pressures mix with one another .
in the majority of these problems the interaction between the
two streams takes place in the presence of an axial pressure
gradient .  its effect on the characteristics of the mixing may
influence significantly the performances of the devices wherein
the phenomena cited above occur .  a theoretical and
experimental program of research to study mixing in the presence of
axial pressure gradients is being carried on at the polytechnic
institute of brooklyn .
12
some structural and aerelastic considerations of high
speed flight .
  the dominating factors in structural design of high-speed
aircraft are thermal and aeroelastic in origin .  the subject
matter is concerned largely with a discussion of these factors and
their interrelation with one another .  a summary is presented
of some of the analytical and experimental tools available to
aeronautical engineers to meet the demands of high-speed flight
upon aircraft structures .  the state of the art with respect to
heat transfer from the boundary layer into the structure, modes
of failure under combined load as well as thermal inputs and
acrothermoelasticity is discussed .  methods of attacking and
alleviating structural and aeroelastic problems of high-speed
flight are summarized .  finally, some avenues of fundamental
research are suggested .
13
similarity laws for stressing heated wings .
  it will be shown that the differential equations for a heated
plate with large temperature gradient and for a similar plate at
constant temperature can be made the same by a proper
modification of the thickness and the loading for the isothermal plate .
this fact leads to the result that the stresses in the heated plate
can be calculated from measured strains on the unheated plate by
a series of relations, called the /similarity laws ./  the
application of this analog theory to solid wings under aerodynamic
heating is discussed in detail .  the loading on the unheated analog
wing is, however, complicated and involves the novel concept
of feedback and /body force/ loading .  the problem of stressing
a heated box-wing structure can be solved by the same analog
method and is briefly discussed .
14
piston theory - a new aerodynamic tool for the
aeroelastician .
  representative applications are described which illustrate the
extent to which simplifications in the solutions of high-speed
unsteady aeroelastic problems can be achieved through the use of
certain aerodynamic techniques known collectively as /piston
theory ./  based on a physical model originally proposed by
hayes and lighthill, piston theory for airfoils and finite wings
has been systematically developed by landahl, utilizing
expansions in powers of the thickness ratio and the inverse of the
flight mach number m .  when contributions of orders and
are negligible, the theory predicts a point-function
relationship between the local pressure on the surface of a wing and the
normal component of fluid velocity produced by the wing's
motion .  the computation of generalized forces in aeroelastic
equations, such as the flutter determinant, is then always
reduced to elementary integrations of the assumed modes of motion .
  essentially closed-form solutions are given for the bending-
torsion and control-surface flutter properties of typical section
airfoils at high mach numbers .  these agree well with results of
more exact theories wherever comparisons can be fairly made .
moreover, they demonstrate the increasingly important influence
of thickness and profile shape as m grows larger, a discovery that
would be almost impossible using other available aerodynamic
tools .  the complexity of more practical flutter analyses-e.g., on
three-dimensional wings and panels-is shown to be substantially
reduced by piston theory .  an iterative procedure is outlined, by
which improved flutter eigenvalues can be found through the
successive introduction of higher-order terms in and  .
  other applications to unsteady supersonic problems are
reviewed, including gust response and rapid maneuvers of elastic
aircraft .  steady-state aeroelastic calculations are also discussed,
but for them piston theory amounts only to a slight modification
of ackeret's formulas .
  suggestions are made regarding future research based on the
new aerodynamic method, with particular emphasis on areas where
computational labor can be reduced with a minimum loss of
precision .  it is pointed out that a mach number zone exists where
thermal effects are appreciable but nonlinear viscous interactions
may be neglected, and that in this zone piston theory is the logical
way of estimating air loads when analyzing aerodynamic-
thermoelastic interaction problems .
15
on two-dimensional panel flutter .
  theory and experiments of the flutter of a buckled plate are
discussed .  it is shown that an increase in the initial deviation
from flatness or a static pressure differential across the plate
raises the critical value of the /reduced velocity ./
  the applicability of the galerkin method to the linearized
problem of flutter of an unbuckled plate has been questioned by
several authors .  in this paper the flutter condition was
formulated in the form of an integral equation and solved numerically
by the method of iteration and the method of matrix
approximations, thus avoiding the constraint of assumed modes .  for a
plate (with finite bending rigidity) the results confirm those
given by the galerkin method .
  an approximate analysis of the limiting form and amplitude of
the flutter motion for a buckled plate is presented .
16
transformation of the compressible turbulent boundary
layer .
  the transformation of the compressible turbulent boundary-
layer equations to their incompressible equivalent is
demonstrated analytically .  the transformation is essentially the same
as that for the laminar layer, first given by stewartson, except
that the explicit relation between the viscosity and temperature
is not required .  a key point in the analysis is the modification
of the stream function to include a mean of the fluctuating
components and the postulate that the apparent turbulent shear,
associated with an elemental mass, remains invariant in the
transformation .
  the values of the incompressible friction coefficients and of
pressure rise causing separation thus transformed show good
agreement with the experimentally measured and independently
reported results .  an application of the transformation to the
self-preserving boundary layers and to the computations of
general boundary-layer flow is shown .
17
remarks on the eddy viscosity in compressible mixing flows .
in connection with a study of the wakes behind bodies in hypersonic flow
carried out for the missile and space vehicle division of the general
electric company, it was desired to estimate the eddy viscosity in
axisymmetric, compressible wakes .  because of the lack of applicable
experimental data, it was found necessary to make such an estimate by
rationally extending the few available data for incompressible flows to
the compressible case .  this suggested the application and extension of
the transformations applied to turbulent boundary layers in reference
infinitesimal mass are invariant with transformation, mager showed that
the partial differential equations for the compressible turbulent
boundary layer can be transformed to incompressible form .  the validity of
this assumption and of the transformations was established for several
boundary-layer flows by comparison with experiment .
18
the flow field in the diffuser of a radial compressor .
this note discusses the two-dimensional diffuser flow field
in a radial compressor outside the impeller wheel .  it is
assumed that the diffuser has guide vanes arranged in a circular
row at a radius .  the impeller wheel has the radius (see
fig. 1) .  the flow in the diffuser starts at the circle with the
radius .  the velocity components, and in the r and
directions of the velocity vector on this circle are prescribed
together with the thermal state of the gas .  the flow so prescribed
on the radius will, if no disturbances are present (i.e., no
boundary conditions in the flow other than zero velocity at
infinity are to be fulfilled), develop in a spiral flow .
19
an investigation of the pressure distribution on conical bodies in
hypersonic flows .
a large amount of work on conical flow fields without axial symmetry
at supersonic speed is presently available .  however, no apparent
hypersonic approximation has yet been derived .  in this note,
experimental data on two elliptical cones at m = 6 are presented and a
hypersonic approach obtained from physical considerations is suggested .
20
generalised-newtonian theory .
  author generalizes lees's (amr 10(1957), rev. 2601)
modification of newtonian theory for blunt-nose bodies to apply to pointed-
nose bodies as well .  the result is expressed by
sin where is the local inclination of the body
surface and the subscript /max/ refers to the maximum local
inclination and pressure coefficient .  for blunt-nose bodies
and the generalized theory reverts to lees's blunt-nose
modification with given by normal shock relations .  author shows,
by comparison of newtonian and generalized-newtonian theory
with exact solutions, the superiority of generalized-newtonian
theory .  he also shows that both two-dimensional and
axisymmetric shapes are correlated by this generalization .  results are
presented in two figures that support author's generalization and
indicate the independence of the correlation from variations in
both the hypersonic similarity parameter k = m(d1) and the ratio
of specific heats y .
  reviewer believes this generalization should be of interest to
those engaged in development of hypersonic hardware as well as
theory .
21
on heat transfer in slip flow .
a number of authors have considered the effect of slip on the heat
transfer and skin friction in a laminar boundary layer over a flat plate .
reference 1 considers this by a perturbation on the usual laminar
boundary-layer analysis while some other studies.dash e.g., reference
the impulsive motion of an infinite plate .
22
on slip-flow heat transfer to a flat plate .
  assuming that continuum flow energy equation in a boundary
layer remains valid well into slip region and taking account of the
temperature jump in a moving rarefied gas and for influence of
large mean free path through appropriate boundary conditions, a
solution is found for the temperature gradient in the slip region .
then from maslen expression (j. aero. sci. 25, 6, 400-401, june
slipping fluid to a flat plate, and behavior confirms results for
small values of knudsen number .
23
skin-friction and heat transfer characteristics of
a laminar boundary layer on a cylinder in axial incompressible
flow .
  a solution is given for the case of the laminar boundary layer
of an incompressible fluid of constant properties on the exterior
of a cylinder with flow parallel to the cylinder axis .  this case
differs from the blasius solution for flow along a flat plate by
considering the effect of the curvature in a plane transverse to
the flow direction .  the local skin-friction and heat-transfer
coefficients for a prandtl number of 0.715 are evaluated and
compared to the similar magnitudes for flat plate flow, and the
effect of the curvature is shown to be significant in some practical
cases .  recovery factors are evaluated, and this quantity is
found to be insensitive to the effect of curvature of the boundary .
24
theory of stagnation point heat transfer in dissociated
air .
  the boundary-layer equations are developed in general for the
case of very high speed flight where the external flow is in a
dissociated state .  in particular the effects of diffusion and of atom
recombination in the boundary layer are included .  it is shown
that at the stagnation point the equations can be reduced exactly
to a set of nonlinear ordinary differential equations even when the
chemical reactions proceed so slowly that the boundary layer is
not in thermochemical equilibrium .
  two methods of numerical solution of these stagnation point
equations are presented, one for the equilibrium case and the
other for the nonequilibrium case .  numerical results are
correlated in terms of the parameters entering the numerical
formulation so as not to depend critically on the physical assumptions
made .
  for the nonequilibrium boundary layer, both catalytic (to
atom recombination) and noncatalytic wall surfaces are
considered .  a solution is represented which shows the transition
from the /frozen/ boundary layer (very slow recombination
rates) to the equilibrium boundary layer (fast recombination rates) .
a recombination rate parameter is introduced to interpret the
nonequilibrium results, and it is shown that a scale factor is
involved in relating the equilibrium state of a boundary layer on
bodies of different sizes .
  it is concluded that the heat transfer through the equilibrium
stagnation point boundary layer can be computed accurately by
a simple correlation formula and that the heat
transfer is almost unaffected by a nonequilibrium state of the
boundary layer provided the wall is catalytic and the lewis
number near unity .
25
inviscid hypersonic flow over blunt-nosed slender bodies .
  at hypersonic speeds the drag area of a blunt nose is much
larger than the drag area of a slender afterbody, and the energy
contained in the flow field in a plane at right angles to the flight
direction is nearly constant over a downstream distance many
times greater than the characteristic nose dimension .  the
transverse flow field exhibits certain similarity properties directly
analogous to the flow similarity behind an intense blast wave
found by g. i. taylor, s. c. lin, and a. sakurai .  a comparison
with the experiments of hammitt, vas, and bogdonoff on a
flat plate with a blunt leading edge at in helium shows
that the shock-wave shape is predicted very accurately by this
similarity analysis .  the predicted surface pressure distribution
is somewhat less satisfactory .  experimental results on a
hemisphere-cylinder obtained at in the galcit air tunnel
indicate that not only the shock-wave shape but also the surface
pressures for this body are given very closely by the similarity
theory, except near the hemisphere-cylinder junction .
  energy considerations combined with a detailed study of the
equations of motion show that flow similarity is also possible for
a class of bodies of the form, provided that,
where for a two-dimensional body and for a
body of revolution .  when the shock shape is not
similar to the body shape, and the entire flow field some
distance from the nose must depend to some extent on the details
of the nose geometry .
  by again utilizing energy and drag considerations one finds
that at hypersonic speeds the inviscid surface pressures
generated by a blunt leading edge are larger than the pressures
induced by boundary-layer growth on an insulated flat surface
for an insulated blunt-nosed slender body of revolution the
corresponding distance is given by .  (here
is free-stream reynolds number based on leading-edge
thickness, or nose diameter .)  in free flight these constants are
replaced by 1,700 and 20, respectively, so that viscous
interaction effects are important over the forward portion of a blunt-
nosed slender body only for relatively low values of .
however, /far downstream/ of the nose the inviscid over-pressure is
small and viscous interaction phenomena will have to be taken
into account .
26
inviscid leading-edge effect in hypersonic flow .
current interest in the problem of inviscid-viscous
interaction has led to the realization of the significant effect of
the leading-edge thickness in hypersonic flow .  the purpose
of this note is to give an account of the downstream influence
of the blunt leading edge on the basis of the hypersonic small
perturbation theory .
27
newtonian flow theory for slender bodies .
  as an aid to the aerodynamieist in the design of air frames for
hypersonic speeds (speeds faster than about mach 5), newtonian
flow theory is examined from the point of view of gas dynamics
and hypersonic small-disturbance theory .  the usual theory is
shown to result as the first approximation of an expansion valid
for small .  a basic similarity parameter
is introduced .  a general solution
of the first approximation for the flow past slender bodies (bodies
which cause only a small disturbance to the stream) at zero angle
of attack is given .  an important condition which limits the
application of the theory is noted-namely, that the pressure
coefficient on the surface not fall to zero .  the theory is then
applied to cones and to bodies whose shape is .
28
a note on the explosion solution of sedov with application
to the newtonian theory of unsteady hypersonic flow .
an exact analytical solution of the equations of inviscid
compressible unsteady flow has been given by sedov (reference
to the solution may be made through hayes and probstein) .
this solution is the similarity solution for a constant-energy point
explosion .  in view of the recent work on problems of hypersonic
flow in the limiting form of the ratio of specific heats near 1
solution in this limit and inquire what form such a solution would
take .  einbinder, in a recent note, has examined the solution for
various but does not mention the interesting case of .
it may be shown that the convergence to the limit is nonuniform
over the flow field .  it is also not difficult to show that the non-
uniform behavior exhibited here is that which one would expect
from the newtonian formulation as derived in reference 3 .
29
a simple model study of transient temperature and thermal
stress distribution due to aerodynamic heating .
  the present work is concerned with the determination of
transient temperatures and thermal stresses in simple models intended
to simulate parts or the whole of an aircraft structure of the built-
up variety subjected to aerodynamic heating .
  the first case considered is that of convective heat transfer
into one side of a flat plate, representing a thick skin, and the
effect of the resulting temperature distribution in inducing
thermal stresses associated with bending restraint at the plate edges .
numerical results are presented for the transient temperature
differentials in the plate when the environment temperature first
increases linearly with time and then remains constant, the
period of linear increase representing the time of acceleration of
the aircraft .  corresponding thermal stress information is
presented .
  the second case is that of the wide-flanged i-beam with
convective heat transfer into the outer faces of the flanges .  numerical
results are presented for transient temperature differentials for a
wide range of values of the applicable parameters and for an
environment temperature variation as described above .
corresponding thermal stresses in a beam of infinite length are
determined .  a theoretical analysis of the stress distribution in a beam
of finite length is carried out and numerical results obtained for
one case .  an experimental investigation of temperatures and
stresses in such a beam is described, and results are presented
which indicate good agreement with corresponding theoretical
results .
30
photo-thermoelastic investigation of transient thermal
stresses in a multiweb wing structure .
  photothermoelastic experiments were performed on a long
multiweb wing model for which a theoretical analysis is available in
the literature .  the experimental procedures utilized to simulate
the conditions prescribed in the theory are fully described .
  correlation of theory and experiment in terms of dimensionless
temperature, stress, time, and biot number revealed that the
theory predicted values higher than the experimentally observed
maximum thermal stresses at the center of the web .  detailed
temperature measurements in the flange suggested that the major
source of this discrepancy can be traced to the one-dimensional
heat conduction analysis of the flange employed in the theory .
31
thermal buckling of supersonic wing panels .
  the temperature and thermal stress distributions are analyzed
in multicellular supersonic wing structures .  a buckling criterion
is established for the panels of cover plates subjected to thermal
stresses .
32
the dynamic motion of a missile descending through
the atmosphere .
  a method is presented for computing rapidly, yet accurately,
the dynamic motion of a ballistic-type missile descending through
the atmosphere .  the equations of motion are separated into a
set of /static/ trajectory equations (zero angle of attack) and a
set of /rotational/ equations describing the oscillatory motion
of the missile about its center of gravity .  a transformation
allows the rotational equations to be written in a manner
analogous to the equation for an undamped oscillating spring mass
system with the mass equal to unity and a time variable spring
constant .  for given initial conditions this equation can be
solved to obtain the envelope of maximum angle of attack .  an
additional transformation allows the calculation of the complete
oscillatory motion at any time during the trajectory as a function
of the maximum angle of attack at that time .
  this solution shows that the maximum angle of attack of a
missile descending through the atmosphere at relatively constant
speed is reduced even when the aerodynamic damping is neglected .
33
the prospects for magneto-aerodynamics .
  the equations describing the flow of an electrically conducting
fluid in the presence of electric and magnetic fields are written
down with the aid of certain simplifications appropriate to
aeronautical applications .  in order to estimate the probable
significance of magneto-aerodynamic effects, some data on
conductivity of pure and /seeded/ air are first examined .
dimensionless quantities representing the ratios of forces and of
currents are then formed and their values studied for conditions
of flight in the atmosphere .
  some examples of magneto-hydrodynamic and magneto-
gasdynamic effects in simple flows are given .  these include
two cases of poiscuille flow of conducting liquids with applied
magnetic fields and the case of quasi-one-dimensional gas flow
with applied electrical and magnetic fields .  in the last case,
attractive possibilities are found for controlled acceleration or
deceleration of gas at subsonic and supersonic speeds, even in
constant-area channels .  the behavior of the flow is
characteristically different in different regimes of mach number and flow
speed relative to certain /significant speeds/ that are dependent
on the ratio of electrical to magnetic field strengths .  these
are studied, and a chart is constructed to relate the length to
the speed ratio of a maximum-acceleration constant-area channel .
  it is concluded that the advantages that may accrue from
magneto-aerodynamic methods are sufficiently attractive to
justify the considerable research and engineering development
that will be required .  among the unsolved engineering problems
are the reduction of surface resistance of electrodes in contact
with a conducting gas, development of techniques for seeding,
and provision of the required magnetic fields in flight .
34
constant-temperature magneto-gasdynamic channel flow .
in the course of investigating boundary-layer flow in
continuous plasma accelerators with crossed electric and
magnetic fields, it was found advantageous to have at hand simple
closed-form solutions for the magneto-gasdynamic flow in the
duct which could serve as free-stream conditions for the boundary
layers .  nontrivial solutions of this sort are not available at
present, and in fact, as in the work of resler and sears, the
variation of conditions along the flow axis must be obtained
through numerical integration .
  consequently, some simple solutions of magneto-gasdynamic
channel flow were sought, possessing sufficient algebraic simplicity
to serve as free-stream boundary conditions for analytic
investigations of the boundary layer in a physically reasonable accelerator .
in particular, since the cooling of the accelerator tube is likely to
be an important physical problem because of the high gas
temperatures required to provide sufficient gaseous conductivity,
channel flow with constant temperature appears interesting .
some simple algebraic solutions for the case of a constant
temperature plasma are developed in the following paragraphs .
35
stagnation point of a blunt body in hypersonic flow .
  the purpose of this paper is to present a method of calculation
devised to yield all the important information on the symmetric
inviscid hypersonic flow in the stagnation point region of a blunt
body .  the problem is the same as that considered by hayes
who used a slightly different approach .  it is demonstrated that
hayes' results are valid in the stagnation point region and can
hence be considered a basis for constructing less restricted
solutions .
  equations are presented giving velocity, pressure, detachment
distance, and vorticity .  the values of shock detachment
distance and body pressure coefficient are compared with
experimental data for spheres .  the pressure comparison shows that
the results of hayes and the theory presented herein represent a
better approximation than the newtonian impact theory for
hypersonic mach numbers .
  in conclusion, the possibility of refinements to this analysis is
discussed .
36
supersonic flow around blunt bodies .
the newtonian theory of impact has been shown to be
useful for pressure calculations on the forward facing part
of bodies moving at high speed .  it is now a familiar practice
to use this information to calculate nonviscous velocities at the
wall and then to estimate rates of heat transfer .  this
procedure is perhaps open to question,. heat-transfer rates depend
on velocity gradients which are not given by the newtonian
analysis .  nor can one obtain information on boundary-layer
stability or all the body stability derivatives .  it seems,
therefore, inevitable that, as design proceeds with these hypersonic
missiles, there will be a greater need for more accurate
aerodynamic theories either to predict what will happen in unfamiliar
flight conditions or to effect an extrapolation from a known test
result to the design condition .
37
a new technique for investigating heat transfer and
surface phenomena under hypersonic flow conditions .
on the forebody of many practically interesting hypersonic
vehicles, there is little interaction between the inviscid
flow field and the boundary layer .  therefore, inviscid flow theory
can be used to determine, independent of surface phenomena,
the physically interesting quantities such as shock shape, shock
detachment distance, sonic line shape, and pressure distribution .
furthermore, the pressure distribution so determined can then be
used for the study of heat transfer, materials behavior, and other
surface phenomena .  thus, for these bodies, the prandtl
boundary-layer concept can be utilized for the calculation of both the
inviscid flow and the boundary-layer behavior .
  it is the purpose of this note to point out that this concept can
also be applied experimentally in order to provide, in
conjunction with a conventional hypersonic wind-tunnel air supply, a
means for investigating hypersonic heat transfer and surface
phenomena under conditions of flight reynolds numbers .
38
on the prediction of mixed subsonic/supersonic pressure
distributions .
  high-speed wind-tunnel results are analyzed to derive a
semiempirical scheme for the prediction of transonic pressure
distributions .  the supersonic and subsonic parts of the flow are
treated separately, and then linked by an empirical shock
pressure rise relation .  the significance of the empirical results is
considered in relation to the physical mechanism of transonic
flows .  it is also shown that theoretical solutions can be
improved by introducing the empirical shock relation .
39
on the flow of a sonic stream past an airfoil surface .
  this study of the flow about an airfoil in a near-sonic stream
indicates the important factors determining the pressure
distribution on the airfoil .  analysis of the mach wave pattern
suggests that the supersonic domain of the flow can be derived
from two simple-wave flows, one arising from the mach waves
reflected at the sonic line and the other from the changes in
airfoil surface slope .  the compressive effect of the reflected mach
waves is determined quantitatively as a function of airfoil
leading-edge geometry from an analysis of measured pressure
distributions for uncambered airfoils,. and it is shown how this can
be superimposed on the wave system from the curved surface to
give an equivalent simple-wave flow over the airfoil .
  an application of this scheme to the calculation of the pressure
distribution over an airfoil in a sonic stream gives results in good
agreement with experiment .
40
experiments on boundary layer transition at
supersonic speeds .
  tests were conducted in the 12-in. continuous supersonic wind
tunnel of the jet propulsion laboratory, california institute of
technology, to determine the effects of surface cooling on
boundary-layer transition at supersonic speeds .  the effects of
cooling were investigated at test section mach numbers of 1.97,
smooth cone in the presence of three levels of supply-stream
turbulence (0.4, 2, and 9 per cent) and several single-element
roughnesses at fixed axial location .  transition data were obtained
optically by means of a magnified-schlieren system .  the results,
for the range of mach number investigated, indicate that (1)
transition on a smooth cone can definitely be delayed by surface
cooling, (2) transition promoted by either supply-stream
turbulence or surface roughness can also be delayed by surface cooling
depending upon degree of turbulence or relative roughness
respectively, and (3) the adverse effects of increased turbulence and
roughness decrease with increasing mach number .
41
on transition experiments at moderate supersonic speeds .
  studies of transition over a flat plate at mach number 1.76
were carried out using a hot-wire anemometer as one of the
principal tools .  the nature and measurements of free-stream
disturbances at supersonic speeds are analyzed .  the
experimental results are interpreted in the light of present overall
information on transition at supersonic speeds and conclusions as
to further fruitful experiments are drawn .
42
the gyroscopic effect of a rigid rotating propeller
on engine and wing vibration modes .
  in many wing vibration analyses it is found necessary to take
into account the effect of flexibly mounted engines .  hence,
it is reasonable to ask what vibratory gyroscopic effect this
flexibility may give rise to when propellers are whirling .  an engine
mount may be thought of as a horizontal beam cantilevered
from the wing, having both horizontal and vertical flexibility .
if this beam were infinitely rigid horizontally, then, when it
vibrated, the gyroscopic moments induced in the propeller due
to the resultant pitching motion of its axis would not produce
propeller axis yaw .  however, engine-mount lateral stiffness
tical stiffness, so that gyroscopic effects will play a role as the
propeller axis undergoes pitching vibrations at the tip of the
cantilever engine mount .  the purpose of this paper is to
investigate this role under the assumption that the propeller itself
is a rigid disc .
  the paper is divided into four parts .  part (1) deals briefly
with classical gyroscope theory .  part (2) presents engine
vibration mode studies-experimental photographic techniques on a
model gyroscope mounted at the ends of two different cantilever
beams .  part (3) presents the theory of the coupled motion of
an elastic wing upon which a gyroscope is mounted to simulate
an engine-propeller system on an airplane .  part (4) consists
of an example of the theory of part (3), in which, by taking
what are thought to be reasonable parameters, results are
obtained showing how the whirling of a rigid propeller may
materially affect wing normal mode shapes and frequencies .
43
the relation between wall temperature and the effect
of roughness on boundary layer transition .
the experimentally demonstrated rise and subsequent
fall of transition reynolds number with decreasing wall-
to-ambient temperature ratio has been the subject of two recent
notes .  in both cases it was argued that the increased
effectiveness of roughness due to wall cooling was not sufficient to
explain the transition-reversal phenomenon on nominally smooth
bodies .  in one case, the criterion for transition reversal was
taken to be and in the other values of as low as
eter is a reynolds number formed from velocity and
kinematic viscosity based on calculated conditions at the height of
roughness element k in the undisturbed, laminar boundary layer
at the station of roughness location .  the present note is
submitted to show that another method for evaluating the effect
of roughness on transition leads to an opposite conclusion .
44
tip-bluntness effects on cone pressures at m=6.85 .
there is, at present, considerable interest in the
characteristies of blunted bodies from both an aerodynamic and a
heat-transfer standpoint .  the use of blunt shapes is
contemplated to reduce the heat-transfer problem at body noses, but
there are also applications for blunt noses which occur from
mainly aerodynamic considerations .  an actual reduction in
drag may be the beneficial result of blunting the nose of a cone
or a similar slender shape under certain conditions .  although
the sphere has received considerable treatment, the nose shapes
are not necessarily tangent spheres .  in the case, let us say, of a
total head tube situated in the nose of a given body, the blunting
may be quite flat, and nose sections blunter than spherical shape
may conceivably be desirable, in some cases, from the heat-
transfer standpoint .
  the purpose of the present investigation is to examine the
aerodynamic effect of a simple type of nose blunting on a basic
body .
the incompressible flow of an electrically conducting fluid
past a porous plate y = 0 with constant suction velocity in
the presence of a transverse uniform strength has recently
been investigated by gupta .  in this note, the problem is
generalized to take into account the effect of free convection, when a
body force g per unit mass is acting in the negative x-direction
parallel to the wall .  the fluid is assumed to be semi-
incompressible as usual .  in addition to the obvious practical
significance, this problem is also interesting in the sense that it
provides another exact solution of the magnetohydrodynamic
equations, since the only electromagnetic assumptions involved
are constant properties and freedom from excessive charges .
45
an investigation of separated flows, part ii: flow
in the cavity and heat transfer .
  the first portion of this paper describes studies of the internal
structure of the separated flow in a notch at a free-stream mach
number of 3 .  observations include..  flow visualization, spark-
schlieren pictures of the fluctuations of the free shear layer, and
studies of the diffusion of heat from sources placed in the
separated region .  the second part describes measurements of local
heat transfer to the wall .
  the external mach number, the length-to-depth ratio of the
cavity, the ratio of the oncoming boundary layer thickness to the
notch depth (in the turbulent flow region), the thermal
to-momentum thickness ratio of the boundary layer and, finally,
the geometry of the internal boundary of the separated region
are varied as systematically as possible .  on the basis of these
observations, a simple model of the flow in and the heat transfer
across the separated region is formulated .
46
some comments on the inversion of certain large matrices .
the subject of matric structural analysis has been treated in two
recently published papers in the journal .  the authors of these papers
have made a number of statements about the inversion of certain large
matrices .  it is the purpose of this note to bring to the attention of
the reader certain facts that shed new light on this important problem .
it is shown here that the situation is not as hopeless as the above-
mentioned authors intimate .
47
analysis of low-aspect-ratio aircraft structures .
  two methods are presented for the analysis of complex low-
aspect-ratio aircraft structures .  both methods provide for
arbitrary external loading, are general with respect to the
orientation of structural members, and permit arbitrary boundary
conditions .  for purposes of analysis a structure is idealized as a
network of flexural members with interconnected torsion boxes .
  in the first method, sets of linear equations are obtained by
expressing boundary conditions, member deflection equations,
equilibrium requirements, and slope-compatibility relationships
in terms of deflections and internal forces .  the solution for
deflections and internal forces is then formed as the product of an
inverse structural matrix and a column matrix of load functions .
  in the second method, the conditions at a given boundary are
assembled as a column matrix and are transferred in a step
by-step fashion over the entire structure to an opposite boundary .
the transfer is accomplished by successive multiplications of
square matrices composed independently for the different
transfer ranges .  the final operation is the inversion of a relatively
small matrix and provides the solution for the unknown boundary
conditions .
  comparisons of theoretical results with experimental data and
electric-analog solutions are favorable .
48
supersonic flow at the surface of a circular cone at
angle of attack .
  formulas for the inviscid flow properties on the surface of a
cone at angle of attack are derived for use in conjunction with
the m.i.t. cone tables .  these formulas are based upon an
entropy distribution on the cone surface which is uniform and
equal to that of the shocked fluid in the windward meridian
plane .  they predict values for the flow variables which may
differ significantly from the corresponding values obtained
directly from the cone tables .  the differences in the magnitudes
of the flow variables computed by the two methods tend to
increase with increasing free-stream mach number, cone angle
and angle of attack .
49
temperature and velocity profiles in the compressible
laminar boundary layer with arbitrary distribution
of surface temperature .
  an analysis is presented which enables the temperature
profiles, veiocity profiles, heat transfer, and skin friction to be
calculated for laminar flow over a two-dimensional or axially
symmetric surface without pressure gradient but with an arbitrary
analytic distribution of surface temperature .  the general theory is
applicable to a gas of any prandtl number, although the
numerical results given herein have been computed for air .
the predictions of the theory for the special case of constant
surface temperature are compared with the calculations of crocco .
on the basis of this comparison, it is inferred that the present
theory enables heat-transfer and skin-friction calculations
accurate to within about 5 per cent to be made for flight conditions
up to mach numbers near 5 and to within about 1 or 2 per cent
for supersonic wind-tunnel conditions up to considerably higher
mach numbers .
  a particular effort has been made to present the results, which
are simple considering their generality, in a form that can be used
readily in practical applications .  from the mathematical point
of view, the theory is applicable to an arbitrary analytic
distribution of surface temperature, but in any given practical case it is
necessary that the surface-temperature distribution be
approximated by a polynomial .  the only unknowns in the final
equations developed are the coefficients of this polynomial, so that the
work involved in applying the theory in any given case depends
entirely on the work involved in approximating a given surface-
temperature distribution by a polynomial .
  an example is worked out in detail which illustrates some of the
principal effects of variable surface temperature .  it is shown
that both positively infinite and negatively infinite heat-transfer
coefficients can occur .  the anomaly of infinite and negative
heat-transfer coefficients is discussed and attributed to the
customary definition of the heat-transfer coefficient, which is shown
to be fundamentally inappropriate for flows with variable surface
temperature .  in the particular example considered, a
conventional method for calculating the net heat transferred yields
completely incorrect results .  a brief qualitative discussion of the
possible effects of the heat transfer on flow separation is given .
in order to facilitate the use of the results, all of the principal
equations developed are collected and summarized in the section
entitled /practical use of results ./
50
investigation of laminar boundary layer in compressible
fluids using the crocco method .
  in the present investigation of the flow of air in a thin laminar
boundary layer on a flat plate, the crocco method has been used to solve
the simultaneous differential equations of momentum and energy involved
in such flow .  the crocco method was used because it gave accurate
results for arbitrary prandtl number near unity .  the prandtl number
was taken at 0.75, the specific heat was held constant, and the
sutherland law of viscosity-temperature variation was assumed to
represent the viscosity data starting with an initial ambient
temperature of -67.6 f .  the main results presented here are the
skin-friction and heat-transfer coefficients as functions of reynolds number,
mach number, and wall-to-free-stream temperature ratio .  variations of
shear, velocity, temperature, and mach number across the boundary layer
are included .  the crocco method is discussed in detail .
51
theory of aircraft structural models subjected to aerodynamic
heating and external loads .
  the problem of investigating the simultaneous effects of transient
aerodynamic heating and external loads on aircraft structures for the
purpose of determining the ability of the structure to withstand flight
to supersonic speeds is studied .  by dimensional analyses it is shown
that ..
constructed of the same materials as the aircraft will be thermally
similar to the aircraft with respect to
the flow of heat through the structure
will be similar to those of the aircraft when the structural model is
constructed at the same temperature as the aircraft .
external loads will be similar to those of the aircraft .
subjected to heating and cooling that correctly simulate the aerodynamic
heating of the aircraft, except with respect to angular velocities and
angular accelerations, without requiring determination of the heat flux
at each point on the surface and its variation with time .
acting on the aerodynamically heated structural model to those acting
on the aircraft is determined for the case of zero angular velocity and
zero angular acceleration, so that the structural model may be subjected
to the external loads required for simultaneous simulation of stresses
and deformations due to external loads .
52
procedure for calculating flutter at high supersonic
speed including camber deflections, and comparison
with experimental results .
  a method which may be used at high supersonic mach numbers is
described for calculating the flutter speed of wings having camber in
their deflection modes .  the normal coupled vibration modes of the wing
are used to derive the equations of motion .  chord deflections of the
vibration modes are approximated by polynomials .  the wing may have a
control surface and may carry external stores although no aerodynamic
forces on the stores are presented .  the aerodynamic forces that are
assumed to be acting on the wing are obtained from piston theory and
also from a quasi-steady form of a theory for two-dimensional steady
flow .  airfoil shape and thickness effects are taken account of in the
analysis .
  the method is used to calculate the flutter speed of some wings
which had been previously tested at mach numbers of 1.3 to 3.0 .
comparison of the calculations and experiment is made for flat-plate 60
and 45 delta wings and also for an untapered 45 sweptback wing .
53
transition reynolds numbers of separated flows at
supersonic speeds .
  experimental research has been conducted on the effects of wall
cooling, mach number, and unit reynolds
number on the transition reynolds
number of cylindrical separated boundary
layers on an ogive-cylinder model .
results were obtained from pressure and temperature measurements and
shadowgraph observations .  the maximum
scope of measurements encompassed
mach numbers between 2.06 and 4.24, reynolds numbers (based on length of
separation) between 60,000 and 400,000,
and ratios of wall temperature to
adiabatic wall temperature between 0.35 and 1.0 .
within the range of the
present tests, the transition reynolds number was observed to decrease
with increasing wall cooling, increase with increasing mach number, and
increase with increasing unit reynolds number .  the wall-cooling effect
was found to be four times as great when the attached boundary layer
upstream of separation was cooled in conjunction with cooling of the
separated boundary layer as when only the separated boundary layer was
cooled .  wall cooling of both the
attached and separated flow regions also
caused, in some cases, reattachment in the otherwise separated region .
cavity resonance present in the separated region for some model
configurations was accompanied by a large decrease in transition reynolds
number at the lower test mach numbers .
54
method for calculation of compressible laminar boundary
layer characteristics in axial pressure gradient with
zero heat transfer .
  the karman-pohlhausen method is extended primarily to sixth-degree
velocity profiles for determining
the characteristics of the compressible
laminar boundary layer over an adiabatic
wall in the presence of an axial
pressure gradient .  it is assumed that the prandtl number is unity and
that the coefficient of viscosity varies linearly with the temperature .
a general approximate solution which permits a rapid determination of
the boundary-layer characteristics for any given free-stream mach number
and given velocity distribution at the outer edge of the boundary layer
is obtained .  numerical examples indicate that this solution will in
practice lead to results of satisfactory
accuracy, including the critical
reynolds number for stability .  for the special purpose of calculating
the location of the separation point in an adverse pressure gradient, a
short and simple method, based on the use of a seventh-degree velocity
profile, is derived .  the numerical example given here indicates that
this method should in practice lead to sufficiently accurate results .
for the special case of flow near a forward stagnation point it is shown
that the karman-pohlhausen method with the usual fourth-degree profiles
leads to results of adequate accuracy, even for the critical reynolds
number .
55
separation, stability and other properties of compressible
laminar boundary layer with pressure gradient and heat
transfer .
  a theoretical study is made of the effect of pressure gradient,
wall temperature, and mach number on laminar boundary-layer
characteristics and, in particular, on the skin-friction and heat-transfer
coefficients, on the separation point in an adverse pressure gradient,
on the wall temperature required for complete stabilization of the
laminar boundary layer, and on the minimum critical reynolds number for
laminar stability .  the prandtl number is assumed to be unity and the
coefficient of viscosity is assumed to be proportional to the
temperature, with a factor arising from the sutherland relation .  a simple and
accurate method of locating the separation point in a compressible flow
with heat transfer is developed .  numerical examples to illustrate the
results in detail are given throughout .
56
an analysis of the applicability of the hypersonic
similarity law to the study of the flow about bodies
of revolution at zero angle of attack .
  the hypersonic similarity law as derived by tsien has been
investigated by comparing the pressure distributions along bodies of
revolution at zero angle of attack .  in making
these comparisons, particular
attention was given to determining the limits of mach number and fineness
ratio for which the similarity law applies .  for the purpose of this
investigation, pressure distributions
determined by the method of
characteristics for ogive cylinders for
values of mach numbers and fineness
ratios varying from 1.5 to 12 were compared .
pressures on various cones
and on cone cylinders were also compared in this study .
  the pressure distributions presented demonstrate that the hypersonic
similarity law is applicable over a
wider range of values of mach numbers
and fineness ratios than might be expected from the assumptions made in
the derivation .  this is significant since within the range of
applicability of the law a single pressure
distribution exists for all similarly
shaped bodies for which the ratio of
free-stream mach number to fineness
ratio is constant .  charts are presented
for rapid determination of
pressure distributions over ogive cylinders for any combination of mach
number and fineness ratio within defined limits .
57
applicability of the hypersonic similarity rule to
pressure distributions which include the effects of
rotation for bodies of revolution at zero angle of
attack .
  the analysis of technical note 2250, 1950, is extended to include
the effects of flow rotation .  it is
found that the theoretical pressure
distributions over ogive cylinders can be related by the hypersonic
similarity rule with sufficient accuracy for most engineering purposes .
  the error introduced into pressure distributions and drag of ogive
cylinders by ignoring the rotation term in the characteristic equations
is investigated .  it is found that
the influence of the rotation term on
pressure distribution and drag depends only upon the similarity
parameter k (mach number divided by fineness ratio) .
although the error in
drag, due to neglect of the rotation term, is negligible at k=0.5, the
error is about 30 percent at k=2.0 .
  charts are presented for the rapid determination of pressure
distributions for rotational flow over
ogive cylinders for all values of
the similarity parameter between 0.5 and
of mach number and fineness ratio .
58
pressure measurements on sharp and blunt 5 and 15 half-angle
cones at mach number 3.86 and angles of attack to
100 .
  measured pressure distributions on cones are compared with modified
newtonian theory .  deviations as large as 14 percent of the stagnation
pressure behind a normal shock are found .
by combining empirical results
for cylinders normal to the flow with
newtonian concepts, a method of
calculating pressures on cones at high angles
of attack is developed .
calculations by this method differ from the
experimental results on sharp cones
by only 2 percent of the stagnation
pressure behind a normal shock .  for
blunted cones, additional deviations
up to 8 percent are noted near the
nose .
  schlieren pictures of the flow show an attached shock on the sharp
of attack .  detachment of the shock
appears to be associated with the
attainment of sonic speed immediately
behind the shock .
  an orifice size effect is found which can increase the indicated
pressure above the true value, if
the orifice width is greater than
one-tenth the local radius of curvature .
59
tables of exact laminar-boundary layer solutions when
the wall is porous and fluid properties are variable .
  the three partial differential equations of the laminar boundary
layer for two-dimensional steady-state compressible flow have been
transformed into two ordinary differential equations by the method of
pohlhausen, falkner, and skan .  the ordinary equations include
parameters for expressing the simultaneous effects of pressure gradient in
the main-stream flow through a porous wall and property changes in the
fluid due to large temperature differences between the wall and the
free stream .
  a total of 58 cases have been solved numerically by the method of
picard .  the euler number (nondimensional pressure-gradient parameter)
ranges in value from 1 (stagnation-point value) to the negative values
found at the laminar separation points .  three rates of flow through
the porous wall were considered (including the impermeable case where
the flow rate is 0) .  five temperature ratios (stream temperature
divided by wall temperature) were used ..  the uncooled and unheated
case (temperature ratio of 1), two cooled cases (temperature ratios of
ture ratios of and ) .  velocity, weight-flow, and temperature
distributions are tabulated as are the dimensionless stream function of
falkner and skan and its derivatives and the dimensionless temperature
function of pohlhausen and its derivatives .
  for each case, displacement, momentum, and convection thicknesses,
as well as nusselt number and coefficient of friction at the wall, were
computed .
60
estimation forces and moments due to rolling for several
slender tail configurations at supersonic speeds .
  the velocity potentials, span loadings, and corresponding force
and moment derivatives have been theoretically evaluated for a number
of slender-tail arrangements performing a steady rolling motion at
supersonic speeds .
  the method of analysis is based upon an application of
conformal-transformation techniques .  the utilization of these techniques allows
the simple determination of the complex potentials for various types
of two-dimensional boundary-value problems .
  in addition, two simple and often-used approximations to the
rolling derivatives have been compared with the corresponding exact
values determined by the method presented in this report .
  in order to show the importance of wing-tail interference, the
effect of the flow field behind a rolling wing on the tail
characteristics has been illustrated for a simple wing-tail arrangement .
61
on flow of electrically conducting fluids over a flat
plate in the presence of a transverse magnetic field .
  the use of a magnetic field to control the motion of electrically
conducting fluids is studied .  the boundary-layer solutions are found
for flow over a flat plate when the magnetic field is fixed relative to
the plate or to the fluid .  the
equations are integrated numerically for
the effect of the transverse magnetic
field on the velocity and temperature
profiles, and hence, the skin friction and rate of heat transfer .
  it is concluded that the skin friction and the heat-transfer rate are
reduced when the transverse magnetic
field is fixed relative to the plate
and increased when fixed relative to the fluid .  the total drag is
increased in all the cases studied .
62
similar solutions for the compressible laminar boundary
layer with heat transfer and pressure gradient .
  stewartson's transformation is applied to the laminar compressible
boundary-layer equations and the
requirement of similarity is introduced,
resulting in a set of ordinary nonlinear differential equations
previously quoted by stewartson, but unsolved .  the requirements of the
system are ..  prandtl number of 1.0, linear viscosity-temperature
relation across the boundary layer, an
isothermal surface, and the particular
distributions of free-stream velocity
consistent with similar solutions .
this system admits axial pressure
gradients of arbitrary magnitude, heat
flux normal to the surface, and arbitrary mach numbers .
  the system of differential equations is transformed to an integral
system, with the velocity ratio as
the independent variable .  for this
system, solutions are found for pressure gradients varying from that
causing separation to the infinitely favorable gradient and for wall
temperatures from absolute zero to twice the free-stream stagnation
temperature .  some solutions for separated flows are also presented .
  for favorable pressure gradients, the solutions are unique .  for
adverse pressure gradients, where the solutions are not unique, two
solutions of the infinite family of possible solutions are identified as
essentially viscid at the outer edge of the boundary layer and the
remainder essentially inviscid .  for
the case of favorable pressure gradients
with heated walls, the velocity within
a portion of the boundary layer is
shown to exceed the local external velocity .
the variation of a reynolds
analogy parameter, which indicates the ratio of skin friction to heat
transfer, is from zero to 7.4 for a surface of temperature twice the
free-stream stagnation temperature, and from zero to 2.8 for a surface
held at absolute zero where the value 2 applies to a flat plate .
63
hypersonic viscous flow over slender cones .
  viscous self-induced pressures on 3 -semivertex-angle cones were
measured over the range 3.7 free-stream mach number 5.8 and 0.5
viscous-interaction parameter 2.3 .  the data were found to be in good
agreement with results obtained by talbot on 5 cones in the range
rameter 3.5 .  all these data were correlated reasonably well by the
viscous-interaction parameter, which is defined as
where and are the mach number and reynolds number based on
ideal taylor-maccoll flow conditions and c is the chapman-rubesin
factor .
  a new method for calculating self-induced pressures is presented
which takes into account the interaction between boundary-layer growth
and the inviscid-flow field at the outer edge of the boundary layer .
pressures calculated by this method were only 10 to 20 percent higher
than the measured values .
64
unsteady oblique interaction of a shock wave with plane
disturbances .
  analysis is made of the flow field produced by oblique impingement
of weak plane disturbances of arbitrary
profile on a plane normal shock .
three types of disturbance are considered ..
moves .  the sound wave refracts either
as a simple isentropic sound wave
or as an attenuating isentropic pressure wave, depending on the angle
between the shock and the incident
sound wave .  a stationary vorticity
wave of constant pressure appears behind the shock .
reflects as a sound wave, and a stationary vorticity wave is produced .
the shock .  the incident wave refracts as a stationary vorticity wave,
and either a sound wave or attenuating pressure wave is also produced .
  computations are presented for the first two types of incident wave,
over the range of incidence angles, for shock mach numbers of 1, 1.5,
and .
65
convection of a pattern of vorticity through a shock
wave .
  an arbitrary weak spatial distribution of vorticity can be
represented in terms of plane sinusoidal shear waves of all orientations and
wave lengths (fourier integral) .  the analysis treats the passage of a
single representative weak shear wave through a plane shock and shows
refraction and modification of the shear wave with simultaneous
generation of an acoustically intense sound
wave .  applications to turbulence
and to noise in supersonic wind tunnels are indicated .
66
some effects of joint conductivity on the temperature
and thermal stresses in aerodynamically heated skin-stiffener
combinations .
  temperatures and thermal stresses in typical skin-stiffener
combinations of winglike structures subjected to aerodynamic heating have
been obtained with the aid of an electronic differential analyzer .
variations were made in an aerodynamic
heat-transfer parameter, in a joint
conductivity parameter, and in the ratio
of skin width to skin thickness .
the results, which are presented in nondimensional form, indicate that
decreasing the joint conductivity parameter lowers both the interior
and the average temperature ratios, increases the peak thermal stress
ratios in the skin, and may considerably increase the peak stiffener
stress ratios,. increasing the aerodynamic heat-transfer parameter
decreases the interior and average temperature ratios, increases the
peak skin stress ratios somewhat,
but greatly increases the peak
stiffener stress ratios,. and increasing the ratio of skin width to skin
thickness produces only moderate decreases in the peak skin stress
ratios while moderately increasing the peak stiffener stress ratios .
67
dynamic stability of vehicles traversing ascending
or descending paths through the atmosphere .
  an analysis is given of the oscillatory motions of vehicles which
traverse ascending and descending paths through the atmosphere at high
speed .  the specific case of a skip path is examined in detail, and
this leads to a form of solution for the oscillatory motion which should
recur over any trajectory .  the distinguishing feature of this form is
the appearance of the bessel rather than the trigonometric function as
the characteristic mode of oscillation .
68
some aspects of air-helium simulation and hypersonic
approximations .
  some illustrations of the differences that may be expected between
results obtained in hypersonic wind tunnels that employ air and results
obtained in those that employ helium as the test medium (imperfect-gas
effects are not considered) are compiled and presented herein .  simple
expressions are presented that demonstrate the possibility of simulating
air results in helium tests and of transforming helium data to
equivalent air data .  nonviscous and viscous simulations are considered .  in
most cases, the methods and the general forms of the expressions for
simulation that are derived are applicable to any two ideal gases having
different ratios of specific heats .
69
predicted shock envelopes about two types of vehicles
at large angles of attack .
  methods based on oblique- and normal-shock relationships and the
continuity of mass flow through suitably chosen volume elements between
the shock and body were developed to predict shock envelopes about two
types of vehicles being considered for atmosphere entry .  one type is a
high-drag capsule shape .  the other type is essentially a slender
triangular wing capable of providing high lift or high drag, depending on
the angle of attack .  predicted and measured shock envelopes were
compared for a mach number range of 3 to 15 for vehicles at high angles of
attack,. good agreement was found .  most of the available experimental
data were in a speed and temperature range in which no important
real-gas effects occurred .
70
a study of flow changes associated with airfoil section
drag rise at supercritical speeds .
  a study of experimental pressure distributions and section
characteristics for several moderately thick airfoil sections was made .  a
correlation appears to exist between the drag-divergence mach number
and the free-stream mach number for which sonic velocity occurs at the
airfoil crest, the chordwise station at which the airfoil surface is
tangent to the free-stream direction .  it was found that, since the
mach number for which sonic velocity occurs at the airfoil crest can be
estimated satisfactorily by means of the prandtl-glauert rule, a method
is provided whereby the drag-divergence mach number of an airfoil
section at a given angle of attack can be estimated from the low-speed
pressure distribution and the airfoil profile .  this method was used
to predict with a reasonable degree of accuracy the drag-divergence
mach number of a considerable number of airfoil sections having diverse
shapes and a wide range of thickness-chord ratios .
  the pressure distributions and section force characteristics of
several moderately thick airfoil sections at mach numbers above the
drag-divergence mach number were analyzed .  some of the characteristics
of the flow over these airfoils at supercritical mach numbers are
discussed .
71
laminar boundary layer behind shock advancing into
stationary fluid .
  a study was made of the laminar compressible boundary layer induced
by a shock wave advancing into a stationary fluid bounded by a wall .
for weak shock waves, the boundary layer is identical with that which
occurs when an infinite wall is impulsively set into uniform motion
shocks .
  velocity and temperature profiles, recovery factors, and
skin-friction and heat-transfer coefficients are tabulated for a wide range
of shock strengths .
72
boundary layer behind shock or thin expansion wave
moving into stationary fluid .
  the boundary layer behind a shock or thin expansion wave advancing
into a stationary fluid has been determined .  laminar and turbulent
boundary layers were considered .  the wall surface temperature behind
the wave was also investigated .  the assumption of a thin expansion
wave is valid for weak expansions but becomes progressively less
accurate for strong expansion waves .
  the laminar-boundary-layer problem was solved by numerical
integration except for the weak wave case,
which can be solved analytically .
integral (karman-pohlhausen type)
solutions were also obtained to provide
a guide for determining expressions
which accurately represent the
numerical data .  analytical expressions
for various boundary-layer parameters
are presented which agree with the
numerical integrations within 1 percent .
  the turbulent-boundary-layer problem was solved using integral
methods similar to those employed for the
solution of turbulent compressible
flow over a semi-infinite flat plate .
the fluid velocity, relative to
the wall, was assumed to have a
seventh-power profile .  the blasius
equation, relating turbulent skin friction
and boundary-layer thickness, was
utilized in a form which accounted for compressibility .
  consideration of the heat transfer to the wall permitted the wall
surface temperature, behind the wave,
to be determined .  the wall
thickness was assumed to be greater than the
wall thermal-boundary-layer
thickness .  it was found that the wall
temperature was uniform (as a
function of distance behind the wave)
for the laminar-boundary-layer case
but varied with distance for the turbulent-boundary-layer case .
73
investigation of the stability of the laminar boundary
layer in a compressible fluid .
  in the present report the stability of two-dimensional laminar
flows of a gas is investigated by the method of small perturbations .
the chief emphasis is placed on the case of the laminar boundary layer .
  part 1 of the present report deals with the general mathematical
theory .  the general equations governing one normal mode of the small
velocity and temperature disturbances are derived and studied in great
detail .  it is found that for reynolds numbers of the order of those
encountered in most aerodynamic problems, the temperature disturbances
have only a negligible effect on those particular velocity solutions
which depend primarily on the viscosity coefficient (/viscous
solutions/) .  indeed, the latter are actually of the same form in the
compressible fluid as in the incompressible fluid, at least to the first
approximation .  because of this fact, the mathematical analysis is
greatly simplified .  the final equation determining the characteristic
values of the stability problem depends on the /inviscid solutions/ and
the function of tietjens in a manner very similar to the case of the
incompressible fluid .  the second viscosity coefficient and the
coefficient of heat conductivity do not enter the problem,. only the
ordinary coefficient of viscosity near the solid surface is involved .
  part 2 deals with the limiting case of infinite reynolds numbers .
the study of energy relations is very much emphasized .  it is shown
that the disturbance will gain energy from the main flow if the gradient
of the product of mean density and mean vorticity near the solid surface
has a sign opposite to that near the outer edge of the boundary layer .
  a general stability criterion has been obtained in terms of the
gradient of the product of density and vorticity, analogous to the
rayleigh-tollmien criterion for the case of an incompressible fluid .
if this gradient vanishes for some value of the velocity ratio of the
main flow exceeding 1-1/m (where m is the free stream mach number) .
74
an experimental study of the turbulen coundary layer
on a shock tube wall .
  interferometric measurements were made of the density profiles of
an unsteady turbulent boundary layer on the flat wall of a shock tube .
the investigation included both subsonic and supersonic flow (mach
numbers of 0.50 and 1.77) with no pressure gradient and with heat transfer
to a cold wall .  velocity profiles and average skin-friction
coefficients were calculated .  effects on the velocity profile of
surface roughness and flow length are examined .
75
studies of structural failure due to acoustic loading .
  some discussion of the acoustic fatigue problem of aircraft
structures is given along with data pertaining to the acoustic inputs from
some powerplants in common use .  comparisons are given for results of
some fatigue tests of flat panels and cantilever beams exposed to both
random- and discrete-type inputs .  in this regard it appears that both
the stress level of the test and the type of model are significant,.
hence, no generalization can be made at this time .  with regard to
increasing the fatigue life, it was noted that increased stiffening of
a panel due to curvature and pressure differential is particularly
beneficial .
76
flight measurement of wall pressure fluctuations and
boundary-layer turbulence .
  the results are presented for a flight test program using a fighter
type jet aircraft flying at pressure altitudes of 10,000, 20,000, and
apparatus was used to measure and record the output of microphones and
hot-wire anemometers mounted on the forward-fuselage section and wing of
the airplane .  mean-velocity profiles in the boundary layers were
obtained from total-pressure measurements .
  the ratio of the root-mean-square fluctuating wall pressure to the
free-stream dynamic pressure is presented as a function of reynolds
number and mach number .  the longitudinal
component of the turbulent-velocity
fluctuations was measured, and the turbulence-intensity profiles are
presented for the wing and forward-fuselage section .
  in general, the results are in agreement with wind-tunnel
measurements which have been reported in the literature .  for example, the
variation of (is the root mean square of the wall-pressure
fluctuation, and q is the free-stream dynamic pressure) with reynolds
number was found to be essentially constant for the forward
fuselage-section boundary layer, while variations at the wing station were
probably unduly affected by the microphone diameter, which was
large compared with the boundary-layer thickness .
77
a comparative analysis of the performance of long range
hypervelocity vehicles .
  long-range hypervelocity vehicles are studied in terms of their
motion in powered flight, and their motion and aerodynamic heating in
unpowered flight .  powered flight is
analyzed for an idealized propulsion
system which rather closely approaches
present-day rocket motors .
unpowered flight is characterized by a return
to earth along a ballistic, skip,
or glide trajectory .  only those
trajectories are treated which yield the
maximum range for a given velocity at the end of powered flight .
aerodynamic heating is treated in a manner
similar to that employed previously
by the senior authors in studying ballistic missiles (naca tn 4047),
with the exception that radiant as well as convective heat transfer is
considered in connection with glide and skip vehicles .
  the ballistic vehicle is found to be the least efficient of the
several types studied in the sense
that it generally requires the highest
velocity at the end of powered flight in order to attain a given range .
this disadvantage may be offset, however, by reducing convective heat
transfer to the re-entry body through
the artifice of increasing pressure
drag in relation to friction drag - that
is, by using a blunt body .  thus
the kinetic energy required by the vehicle at the end of powered flight
may be reduced by minimizing the mass of coolant material involved .
  the glide vehicle developing lift-drag ratios in the neighborhood
of and greater than 4 is far superior
to the ballistic vehicle in ability
to convert velocity into range .  it has the disadvantage of having far
more heat convected to it,. however, it has the compensating advantage
that this heat can in the main be radiated
back to the atmosphere .
consequently, the mass of coolant material may be kept relatively low .
  the skip vehicle developing lift-drag ratios from about 1 to 4 is
found to be superior to comparable ballistic and glide vehicles in
converting velocity into range .  at
lift-drag ratios below 1 it is found to
be about equal to comparable ballistic
vehicles while at lift-drag ratios
78
an analytical treatment of aircraft propeller precession
instability .
  an analytical investigation is made of a precession-type instability
which can occur in a flexibly supported aircraft-engine-propeller
combination .  by means of an idealized
mathematical model which is comprised
of a rigid power-plant system flexibly
mounted in pitch and yaw to a fixed
backup structure, the conditions required for neutral stability are
determined .  the paper also examines the sensitivity of the stability
boundaries to changes in such parameters
as stiffness, damping, and
asymmetries in the engine mount, propeller
speed, airspeed, mach number,
propeller thrust, and location of pitch and yaw axes .  stability is found
to depend strongly on the damping and stiffness in the system .
  with the use of nondimensional charts theoretical stability
boundaries are compared with experimental results obtained in wind-tunnel
tests of an aeroelastic airplane model .  in general, the theoretical
results, which do not account for wing response, show the same trends
as observed experimentally,. however,
for a given set of conditions
calculated airspeeds for neutral stability
are consistently lower than the
measured values .  evidently, this result is due to the fact that wing
response tends to add damping to the system .
79
effects of extreme surface cooling on boundary layer
transition .
  an investigation was made to determine the combined effects of
surface cooling, pressure gradients, nose blunting, and surface finish on
boundary-layer transition .  data were obtained for various body shapes
at a mach number of 3.12 and reynolds
numbers per foot as high as 15x10 .
  previous transition studies, with moderate cooling, have shown
agreement with the predictions of stability theory .  for surface roughnesses
ranging from 4 to 1250 microinches the location of transition was
unaffected with moderate cooling .  with extreme cooling, an adverse effect
was observed for each of the parameters investigated .  in general, the
transition reynolds number decreased with
decreasing surface temperature .
in particular, the beneficial effects of a favorable pressure gradient
obtained with moderate cooling disappear with extreme cooling, and a
transition reynolds number lower than
that observed on a cone is obtained .
further, an increase in the nose bluntness decreased the transition
reynolds number under conditions of extreme cooling .
80
effect of distributed three-dimensional roughness and
surface cooling on boundary layer transition and lateral
spread of turbulence at supersonic speeds .
  an investigation was made in the langley 4 by 4-foot supersonic
pressure tunnel at mach numbers of 1.61 and 2.01 to determine (1) the
effect of distributed roughness on boundary-layer transition with the
model surface at adiabatic wall temperature and cooled and (2) the
effect of surface cooling on the lateral spread of turbulence .  both
distributed granular-type and single spherical roughness particles were
used, and transition of the boundary layer was determined by hot-wire
anemometers .  the transition-triggering mechanism of the
three-dimensional roughness at supersonic speeds appeared to be the same as
that previously observed at subsonic speeds .  in fact, the critical
value of the roughness reynolds number parameter (that is,
the value at which turbulent spots are initiated by the roughness) was
found to be approximately the same at supersonic and subsonic speeds
when complete local conditions at the top of the roughness, including
density and viscosity, were considered in the formulation of the
roughness reynolds number .  for three-dimensional roughness at a reynolds
number less than its critical value, the roughness introduced no
disturbances of sufficient magnitude to influence transition .  surface
cooling, although providing a theoretical increase in stability to small
disturbances, did not increase to any important extent the value of the
critical roughness reynolds number for three-dimensional roughness
particles .  cooling, therefore, because of its effect on the
boundary-layer thickness, density, and viscosity actually promoted transition due
to existing three-dimensional surface roughness for given mach and
reynolds numbers .  the measured lateral spread of turbulence in the
boundary layer appeared to be unaffected by the increased laminar
stability derived from the surface cooling .
81
compressible laminar flow and heat transfer about a
rotating isothermal disk .
  the flow and heat transfer about a rotating isothermal disk are
re-examined to include the effects of compressibility and property
variations .  if viscous dissipation is neglected,
the compressible problem is
correlated to the incompressible problem by assuming linear variations
of viscosity and thermal conductivity with temperature .  certain
inaccuracies in several previous incompressible solutions are noted and
corrected herein .  the effect of compressibility appears as a
distortion of the normal coordinate and normal velocity component and as
a multiplicative factor in the heat-transfer coefficient, the nusselt
number, and in the expressions for the skin-friction components and
torque required to rotate the disk .
82
theoretical investigation of the ablation of a glass-type
heat protection shield of varied material properties
at the stagnation point of a re-entering irbm .
  the melting-type heat protection at the stagnation point of a
re-entering irbm is treated by employing homogeneous, opaque, and
nondecomposing glass shields which do not exceed a temperature of
some effects due to variations of the glass properties .  the ballistic
re-entry vehicle has a nose diameter of 0.635 m, a ballistic factor
of 3.5 x 10, a re-entry angle of 124.9 (from the
vertical) at an altitude of 100 km, and a re-entry speed of 4.5 .
the performance of 36 different glass shields with assumed
combinations of material properties is investigated by employing a
calculation method which yields practically exact, transient solutions
for the problem .  as a corollary, results for a certain steady flight
state are also given .  the discussions made it possible to derive
under realistic flight conditions some thermal characteristics for the
employment of thin, or light-weight, glass shields .
  investigation of these hypothetical glass shields leads to the
conclusion that a low thermal conductivity and a high specific heat,
and thus, a small thermal diffusivity are most desirable .  a small
thermal diffusivity yields high surface temperatures, causing a high
radiative heat transfer out of the shield,. and steep temperature
profiles normal to the surface, causing a small thermal penetration across
the shield with little total ablation of the shield .  results show that
for the assumed irbm re-entry, the necessary thickness of the employed
glass shields increases monotonically with thermal diffusivity which is
the only material parameter affecting this thickness .
  a high viscosity level and a high emissivity constant of the
surface of the supposedly opaque shield are also desirable,. although,
these two properties exert a comparatively small influence on the
overall performance when disregarding glass shields with an extremely
low viscosity level .
83
discussion of solar proton events and manned space
flights .
  as a result of studies made during the
international geophysical year (igy) and the
international geophysical cooperation (igc),
it is known that a considerable fraction of
large solar flares give rise to almost pure
streams of protons which reach the earth and
continue to arrive for as long as 11 days .
the energies of these particles lie within a
very steep spectrum extending from 20 to
least 500 mev .  because of the frequency
of large flares during times of high solar
activity, and owing to the long duration of each
solar proton emission, these particles were
present in detectable intensity near the top
of the earth's atmosphere for about 15 percent
of the time from 1957 to 1960 .  the number
of large flares that accelerated and released
these particles during this three-year period was about 30 .
  the event that began on august 22, 1958
contributed greatly toward the understanding
of the solar and terrestrial sequence of events,
and in addition provided the first
identification of the emitted particles .  a flare on may
of protons in the neighborhood of the earth that
this phenomenon was recognized as an
additional radiation hazard to manned vehicles
in the high atmosphere and in most parts
of the solar system .  the three very intense
events that occurred in july, 1959 further
supported this conclusion, and the possibility
of predicting such events became an
important consideration .  in addition to its value
in the protection of human beings, effective
forecasting clearly would be of great value in
the detailed scientific study of this
phenomenon .
  this paper presents a preliminary
discussion of some aspects of predicting the
arrival of protons at the earth following the
appearance of solar activity features and,
equally important, of forecasting the periods
when this penetrating radiation is unlikely
to occur .
84
experimental investigation of the downstream influence
of stagnation point mass transfer .
  this report presents the results of an experimental
investigation of the downstream influence of localized mass transfer in the
stagnation region of a blunt body under hypersonic flow
conditions .  the coolant is injected through a porous plug coaxial
with the centerline of symmetry of the model .  the tests were
carried out in a wind tunnel with a mach number of 6.0,
stagnation temperatures of approximately 1,600 r., and a stagnation
pressure of approximately 600 psia .  four different gases were
injected over a range of mass flows .  the heat transfer on the
impermeable section was measured under isothermal wall
conditions,. for the higher rates of mass flow, adiabatic surface
temperatures were also determined .  the theoretical analysis of the
boundary-layer flow is investigated in order to establish the
similarity parameters for the flow system .  these parameters permit
the extrapolation of the test results to other flow conditions,
provided that laminar flow prevails .  helium is found to be the
most efficacious coolant .
85
on trails of axisymmetric hypersonic blunt bodies flying
through the atmosphere .
  the trail left in the atmosphere by a body moving at hypersonic
speeds is the subject of theoretical treatment .  the times
required for ionization and dissociation (and their inverse processes)
to go to completion, when compared to the flow times of a gas
particle, are important in determining the observable effects of
hypersonic trails-i.e., emitted thermal radiation and reflection
of electromagnetic waves from the trail .
  in order to simplify the theoretical treatment, the trail is
divided into two regions ..  (1) the expansion-controlled trail,
which treats the behavior of the wake behind the body up to a
point, along the direction of flight, where the pressure decays to
the free-stream value and cooling is controlled principally by the
expansion of the flow, and (2) the conduction-controlled trail,
where the trail cools mainly by diffusion of heat away from the
high-temperature core .
  the influence of the details of the body shape on the
observables are discussed and a simple computational procedure for
the behavior of the conduction-controlled trail is developed based
on integral methods .  results of calculations that assume
thermodynamic equilibrium of the flow field give the values of the
thermodynamic variables in the trail of a sphere, axial
distributions of emitted thermal radiation, and maps of electron density
distribution .  it is shown that the cooling of the
conduction-controlled trail is essentially due to conduction of heat and that
viscous effects are not important .  it is found that this portion
of the trail does not widen as one proceeds downstream .  flight
velocities considered vary between 15,000 and 35,000 ft sec and
altitudes range between 100,000 and 250,000 ft .
86
inviscid-incompressible flow theory of static peripheral
jets in proximity to the ground .
  an /exact/ flow theory of peripheral jets issuing
symmetrically from a hovering aerial-ground vehicle is presented .  the
theory is exact insofar as no simplifying assumptions have been
made in obtaining a solution of the governing inviscid,
two-dimensional hydrodynamical flow equations .  the results are
valid for all jet thickness vehicle height ratios .  the limit of
applicability of existing theories (very low thickness height
ratios) are defined .  jet reaction, lift, and power coefficients for
static conditions are introduced and computed .  lift
augmentation and lift power ratios are also calculated .
  applications to three-dimensional vehicles with rotational
symmetry are indicated .
87
free-convection magnetohydrodynamic flow past a porous flat plate .
the incompressible flow of an electrically conducting fluid past a
porous plate with constant suction velocity in the presence of a
transverse uniform strength has recently been investigated by gupta .  in
this note, the problem is generalized to take into account the effect of
free convection, when a body force is acting parallel to the wall .  the
fluid is assumed to be semi-incompressible as usual .  in addition to
the obvious practical significance, this problem is also interesting in
the sense that it provides another exact solution of the
magnetohydrodynamic equations, since the only electromagnetic assumptions involved
are constant properties and freedom from excessive charges .
88
magnetohydrodynamic free-convection pipe flow .
it has been shown that transverse magnetic fields of practical
strengths exert considerable influence on liquid-metal,
free-convection, vertical, flat-plate and parallel-plate flow fields .
the extent of influence was determined by the magnitude of a
nondimensional parameter a which is the ratio of the hartmann
number to the fourth root of the grashof number, and is a
measure of the relative influence of the magnetic and buoyant
forces .  in this note the steady, fully developed, laminar,
free-convection flow of a fluid of electrical conductivity through
a fully submerged, open-ended, constant-temperature, vertical
pipe located in a transverse magnetic field of strength is
analyzed in terms of the same parameter .  the magnitude of
its influence on the velocity and temperature profiles, the surface
shear and heat transfer, and the volumetric flow rate is
determined .
89
an investigation of separated flows, part i: the pressure
field .
  the present article describes an investigation of several types of
separated regions such as blunt-base wakes and cavities formed
in cutouts in the boundaries and ahead of or behind two
dimensional steps in supersonic (mach numbers 2 to 4) and
subsonic flow .  the conditions for the existence, the geometry,
and the pressure field are described in this paper .
  a second article (to be published) will describe investigations of
the internal flow and the heat transfer across such separated
regions .
  it is found that there is a maximum (critical) ratio of the length
of the separated free-shear layer to the depth of the depression
in the boundary beyond which the cavity collapses, leaving
mutually independent separated regions at each protrusion .
this critical length changes greatly upon laminar-turbulent
transition in the oncoming boundary layer,. in either laminar or
turbulent flow it is approximately independent of mach and
reynolds numbers .  a semiempirical correlation predicting the
conditions under which the flow will span a depression of arbitrary
depth is proposed .
  detailed pressure distributions along the boundaries of a
cavity (in turbulent flow) are presented as a function of the ratio
of the cavity length to the critical length, which is found to be
the pertinent similarity parameter .  for short notches
the impact pressure due to the reversal of the inner portion
of the shear layer at recompression tends to thicken the shear
layer and a type of boundary layer-free stream interaction
governs the pressure field .  the pressure in the cavity is nearly
constant and can be higher than free-stream .  in long notches
the shear layer bends inward at separation and
curves back gradually ahead of the recompression point .  the
floor-pressure variation is pronounced and the recovery pressure
at reattachment is small .  the variation of the drag coefficient
with mach number reflects the change from one to the other
mechanism of recompression .
  detailed surveys of the mach-number distributions in a
blunt-body wake and the mixing region behind its throat, as
well as in the shear layer spanning a cutout in a wall, are presented
and analyzed .  it is found that, in general, the assumptions of
the simple supersonic-wake models which rely on a principle of
steady flow with mass conservation in the cavity are not adequate
for cavities in which there is recompression against a boundary .
  results showing the influence of the thickness of the initial
boundary layer (in the range of 0.3 to 3 times the notch depth)
and of the geometry of the notch are also presented .
90
periodic temperature distributions in a two-layer composite
slab .
an investigation to determine the feasibility of using an
insulating thermal barrier to protect exposed solid
propellant motors from atmospheric or environmental temperature
variations has recently been completed .  in one portion of this
study, a solution was developed for the periodic temperature
distribution in a two-layer composite slab .  one exposed surface of
this composite slab was adiabatic, and the other exposed surface
was subjected to a sinusoidal temperature variation .  the
technique used in the analysis was similar to that of grober .  in this
note, pertinent features of the development of the solution are
given .
91
periodic temperature distribution in a two-layer composite slab .
in a recent contribution to the reader's forum, under the above title,
stonecypher outlined a method for finding the periodic temperature
distribution in a two-layer composite slab, one exposed surface of the slab
being insulated and the other subject to a sinusoidal temperature
variation .  perfect thermal contact between the two layers, and constant
thermal properties were assumed .
two years ago i drew attention in these pages to a method for
determining the transient temperature in such a two-layer slab resulting from a
triangular heat-input pulse .  i should like to point out that this same
method also is applicable to the case where one external face is given
a sinusoidal temperature variation with time .  the method is based on
the analogy between one-dimensional heat flow and the flow of an
electric current in a simple transmission line having only series resistance
and parallel capacitance .
92
the analysis of redundant structures by the use of
high-speed digital computers .
  large-scale redundant structure analyses are currently
feasible by the use of modern high-speed digital computers .
this capability opportunely meets the urgent need to solve
complex problems which otherwise would be hopelessly beyond
the capacity of the hand desk computer .  however, the difficulties
have now shifted from tedious hand computations to the problems
of adequately representing the structure by a model and
of the peculiarities of irregular geometrical configurations .
  a wide scope of problem types can be handled by a generalized
program approach .  matrix formulation is used for the organization
of input data and for handling data transfer in the large
complex of subroutines, including the formation of equilibrium
and continuity conditions to the final loads and deflections .
simultaneous treatment of thermal expansions and plasticity
is included .
  the use of minimum-size redundant systems is emphasized,
starting from the philosophy of cutting members to provide a
statically determinate structure .  improved numerical accuracy
and problem size capacity is gained for a given computer .
examples are discussed ranging from simple plane-load diffusion
problems to pressurized fuselage cutouts and complex
wing-fuselage-shell intersection-type problems .
93
the supersonic blunt body problem - review and extensions .
  a survey of existing analytical treatments of the supersonic or
hypersonic blunt-body problem indicates that none is adequate
for predicting the details of the flow field .  reasons are given for
the failure of various plausible approximations .  a numerical
method, which is simpler than others proposed, is set forth for
solving the full inviscid equations using a medium-sized electronic
computer .  results are shown from a number of solutions for
bodies that support detached shock waves described by conic
sections .
94
the transverse curvature effect in compressible axially
symmetric laminar boundary layer flow .
  the viscous transverse curvature effect in compressible axially
symmetric laminar boundary-layer flow has been investigated,
and it is found that the effect is characterized by the parameter
which is essentially the ratio of the boundary-layer thickness
to body radius .  it is shown that the busemann and crocco
integrals of the two-dimensional energy equation for are
still valid for axially symmetric flow in which the transverse
curvature effects are considered .  by a generalization of
mangler's transformation it is then shown that the boundary-layer
equations are reducible to an almost two-dimensional form,
making the analysis simpler for two asymptotic flow regions
characterized by and less than or of the order of unity .
it is with the latter region that the present paper is primarily
concerned, and for this case it is shown that the additional term
in the momentum and energy equations, which differentiates them
from the two-dimensional form, behaves like an external
favorable pressure gradient .
  except for certain special cases it is necessary to obtain the
of the order of unity by means of asymptotic expansions in
ascending powers of a parameter that is small compared to unity
but proportional to .  it is shown how the asymptotic
solutions can be found for (1) the velocity and temperature
distributions for the compressible zero pressure gradient case when the
body shapes are given by and and (2) the
velocity distribution for incompressible flow with an external
velocity of the form past a body given by .  the
zeroth approximation is the mangler result .  for the cases of a
linear external velocity distribution, similar profiles can be found
for all values of .  more generally it is shown that similar
profiles exist if the exponents n and m satisfy the condition that .
here, similar is used in the restricted meaning
that the distributions are derivable from ordinary differential
equations .
  in the case of the cone and cylinder with zero pressure gradient
where the equations have been numerically integrated for,
the first-order correction to the mangler formulation shows that
the effect on both the skin-friction coefficient and heat-transfer
rate can become appreciable in the range where is less than
or of the order of unity .  at a constant, the effects are
increased in magnitude when either the ratio of wall to free-stream
temperature, or mach number, is increased .  also, all other
conditions being equal, for the same value of the skin-friction
coefficient and heat-transfer increase on the cylinder is greater
than that on the cone .
  for flows with pressure gradient, the transverse curvature term
behaves again like a favorable pressure gradient and tends to
delay both separation and transition when compared with axially
symmetric flows in which the transverse curvature effect is
neglected .
95
temperature distribution and thermal stresses in a
model of a supersonic wing .
  the transient temperature distribution and the thermal
stresses in an idealized wing structure considered by hoff and
torda in reference 1 are determined .  only the effects of
aerodynamic heating and of heat conduction are included,. radiation
and convection effects are neglected .  the present work differs
from that of reference 1 in that the conduction from the cap to
the web is considered when the temperature of the cap is
calculated, and the spar cap temperature is assumed to be a function
of both space and time .  graphs of temperature and thermal
stress distributions are presented, and the results are compared
with those of reference 1 .
96
review of published data on the effect of roughness on transition from
laminar to turbulent flow .
a review is presented of the published data on the effect of roughness,
especially single roughness elements, on transition from laminar to
turbulent flow, in which an attempt is made to reanalyze and correlate the
available information .  the reanalysis shows that the transition
reynolds number of a flat plate with zero pressure gradient is a
function of the ratio of the height of the roughness element to the
displacement thickness of the boundary layer at the element, this functional
relation being a better representation of the data than a constant
critical reynolds number of the roughness element .  other data show that the
effects of roghness are similar in streams of different initial
turbulence and that a plot of the ratio of transition reynolds number of the
rough plate to that for the smooth plate against the ratio of the height
of the roughness element to displacement thickness of the boundary layer
at the element gives good correlation of all the data for a given shape
when transition occurs downstream from the
roughness element .  at a certain value of the height-thickness ratio
dependent on the stream speed, location of roughness element, and
airstream turbulence, the transition position reaches the element and
remains there as the height or the stream speed is further increased .
the paper also discusses available data on the effect of distributed
roughness on transition on a flat plate, as well as some of the
published data on roughness effects on transition on air-foils .
97
a mixing theory for the interaction between dissipative
flows and nearly isentropic streams .
  by means of a simplified theoretical /model,/ the present paper
treats the general class of flow problems characterized by the
interaction between a viscous or dissipative flow near the surface
of a solid body, or in its wake, and an /outer/ nearly isentropic
stream .  for the present, the external flow is taken to be a plane,
steady, supersonic flow, which makes a small angle with a plane
surface or plane of symmetry, although the methods used can be
extended to curved surfaces, to axially symmetric supersonic
flows, and also to subsonic flows .  the internal dissipative flow
is regarded as quasi-one-dimensional and parallel to the surface
on the average, with a properly defined mean velocity and mean
temperature .  the nonuniformity of the actual velocity
distribution is taken into account only approximately by means of a
relation between mean temperature and mean velocity .
mixing, or the transport of momentum from outer stream to
dissipative flow, is considered to be the fundamental physical process
determining the pressure rise that can be supported by the flow .
with the aid of this concept, a large number of flow problems is
shown to be basically similar, such as boundary-layer
shockwave interaction, wake flow behind blunt-based bodies (base
pressure problem), flow separation in overexpanded supersonic
nozzles, separation on wings and bodies, etc .
98
heat transfer by laminar flow to a rotating plate .
  an exact solution of the heat-transfer problem for the von
karman example of the laminar flow of a viscous fluid over a
rotating plate is given in dimensionless form and physically
discussed .  the solution is explicitly given for a constant
temperature on the plate with viscous dissipation included .  the
numerical results are given for prandtl numbers from 0.5 to 10 .
99
the fundamentals of the statistical theory of turbulence .
statistical theory in general considers mean values of certain
quantities .  in the case of the turbulent motion one is interested in mean
values of velocities and of their derivatives, and in mean values of
squares and products of velocities and their derivatives .  it was o.
reynolds who first expressed the so-called apparent or turbulent
stresses by the mean values of the products of the velocity components .  the
different theories suggested so far have as their common objective the
establishment of relations between certain mean values, e.g. between the
turbulent shear stresses given by the mean products of velocity
fluctuations and the derivatives of the mean velocities, i.e. the measured mean
velocity gradients .  in this sort of investigations the conception of
the /correlation/ is of paramount importance .  the late a. friedman
tried to introduce the correlations as unknown variables in the
hydrodynamic equations., however, he could not carry his investigations to
practical results, i.e., to results which can be compared with the
experimental evidence .  recently, g. i. taylor had success in his
analysis of /isotropic/ turbulence by means of correlation calculations, and
was able to discuss, theoretically, the problem of the decay of
turbulence in a windstream behind a turbulence producing device .  his theory
raised considerable interest because it is concerned with the important
problem of wind-tunnel turbulence and its results could be compared
directly with experimental work done by dryden in this country and by
fage, townend and simmons in england .
the present paper is concerned with two fundamental problems.. with
uniform isotropic turbulence and with the turbulent friction in a
parallel stream .  first, the general theory of isotropic turbulence is
developed .  this general theory includes taylor's consideration as a
special case .  however, it
100
vibration isolation of aircraft power plants .
vibration in aircraft structure can almost
always be traced to vibratory forces originating
from the power plant .  these forces are transmitted
to the aircraft in two ways ..  (1) by the action of air
forces upon the surfaces of the aircraft in, or adjacent
to, the slip stream of the propeller, and (2) by direct
transmission of unbalanced forces from the power
plant through the engine mounting .  the latter has
always caused the preponderance of disturbance .
vibratory stresses induced in the engine mounting
structure occasionally produce fatigue failures in the
associated parts, and always shorten the useful life
of the entire aircraft structure .  more important,
however, are the psychological and physiological
effects of continuous vibration and its attendant noise
on the passengers and crew .  this may very likely
be the major source of the rapid fatigue which is so
intimately associated with flying .  the importance
and desirability of drastically reducing vibration can
hardly be questioned .
  this paper is limited to a consideration of the
directly transmitted forces and, further, considers the
power plants as rigid bodies attached by flexible means
to the aircraft which is also considered as a rigid body
of relatively large mass .  it is also limited to the case
of engines and engine supporting structures having
axial symmetry (radial engines), although the methods
employed could easily be extended to other cases .
